user-docs/docs/QuckStart.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started - Operating System Installation and IoTconnector lite Commissioning
---

## Prepare SD Card

You can find the latest Golden Image for the IoT2050 Advanced can be downloaded here:

_[Download IoTconnector lite OS](https://codestryke-artifacts.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/dmg-mdclight/6nGDr9SZEvhN9qTLOuzMBK61mMb96OmJVf4d/Z9DGRRrFEX87Axzyq0aSxB6sB3LqFWCnW1tk/iot-connector-light-os-v1.2.0.zip)_

Unzip the image and use dd to copy the operating system to an SD Card. Industrial SD Cards are recommended.

Command:
`sudo dd if=<path to image> of=<your device> bs=4M oflag=sync`

Example:
`sudo dd if=mdclight-iot2050.img of=/dev/sdb bs=4M oflag=sync`

You can also use balena Etcher for a safer way to flash the image: [Download Balena Etcher](https://www.balena.io/etcher/)

After the command or balena Etcher is finished your SD Card is ready.

## Setup IoT2050 & Change Boot Order

By default (for newer IoT2050 Advanced device) the Siemens Industrial OS 2.x is installed on the internal MMC storage. In addition the boot priority is set
to the internal memory above the SD card slot. This means that you have to boot into the Industrial OS, complete the setup wizard and change the boot order before you can use the "IoTconnector lite OS".

1. First you need to complete the Industrial OS setup wizard. For this you need to connect a keyboard and monitor to your IoT2050 device. Keep in mind that an if you
   want to use an "Display Port" to HDMI adapter, you need to use an active one.
2. After you connected monitor and keyboard connect the IoT2050 to a power source.
3. After boot the setup wizard should be displayed. You can mostly use default configurations, but be sure to configure a known IP address for at least one network interface, this will be used later for SSH access. If the wizard does not start and you are stuck on the "localhost" login, you can try to reboot. If that does not
   work you need to use an USB->UART adapter to access the console: [Siemens Documentation](https://support.industry.siemens.com/tf/ww/en/posts/how-to-setup-pre-installed-industrial-os-on-iot2050-advanced/266090/?page=0&pageSize=10)
4. SSH into the device using the configured IP address, username and password.

Create `/etc/fw_env.config`, for example using the command line:

```
cat <<EOT >> /etc/fw_env.config
# MTD device name       Device offset   Env. size       Flash sector size       Number of sectors
/dev/mtd3               0x0000          0x20000         0x10000
/dev/mtd4               0x0000          0x20000         0x10000
EOT
```

Then run `fw_setenv boot_targets usb0 usb1 usb2 mmc0 mmc1` to set the sd card to first boot priority

## Setup OS & Config

Now you can disconnect the IoT2050 from the power supply and insert the SD card. After you reconnect the power, the device will boot into
the the new OS stored on the SD card.

The device can be accessed using keyboard & monitor, or via SSH over the network. The default IP address of the eth0 interface is `192.168.214.165`, eth1 is set to
DHCP by default. CAUTION!: Make sure that no device in your network has the address 192.168.214.165 before you connect your network to eth0!

The default user is `root` & the default password is `mdclight`.

Once in the shell you can configure the network interfaces with the following commands:

For X1 P1 - eth0 (machine network - default IP: 192.168.214.165):
`nmcli con mod 'eth0-default' ipv4.method auto` - For DHCP
`nmcli con mod 'eth0-default' ipv4.addresses 192.168.214.231/24 ipv4.method manual` - For static IP
`nmcli con up eth0-default` - After you entered one of the above commands, to activate the changes

For X1 P2 - eth1 (company network - default setting: DHCP):
`nmcli con mod 'eth1-default' ipv4.method auto`
`nmcli con mod 'eth1-default' ipv4.addresses 192.168.185.181/24 ipv4.gateway 192.168.185.1 ipv4.dns 192.168.185.1 ipv4.method manual`
`nmcli con up eth1-default` - After you entered one of the above commands, to activate the changes

## Configuration Web Interface

- The IoTconnector lite can be configured via the web interface (accessible via port 80 on both network interfaces)
- After the configuration is changed you need to restart the IoTconnector lite, either via a reboot of the device or via `docker-compose down && docker-compose up -d` (In the user folder of "root" - `cd ~`)
- You can use the `nmcli` command to see the IP addresses for both interfaces (For DHCP you can see the IP address which was assigned to the device)

## Connecting MTConnect Applications

- The MTConnect endpoint is exposed on port `5000` on both network interfaces
- You can use the `nmcli` command to see the IP addresses for both interfaces (For DHCP you can see the IP address which was assigned to the device)

## Connecting OPC UA Clients

- The OPC UA server endpoint is exposed on port `4840` on both network interfaces
- You can use the `nmcli` command to see the IP addresses for both interfaces (For DHCP you can see the IP address which was assigned to the device)

## Configuration documentation & reference

- Primarily the IoTconnector lite should be configured via the webserver
- The IoTconnector lite config is stored in `/etc/MDCLight/config/config.json` - You can use `IP=<your ip> yarn copy_mdc_conf` to update the IoTconnector lite config on an IoT2050 from the repository
- See the "MdcLightConfiguration" document for an explanation of the configuration format
- The MTConnect agent configuration is stored in `/etc/MDCLight/mtc_config` - The documentation for these config files can be found on the [MTConnect Agent Github](https://github.com/mtconnect/cppagent#configuration)
- After you changed the configuration you need to restart the docker containers `docker-compose down && docker-compose up -d`. HINT: To avoid problems with the
  messenger you can also only restart the "mdclight-prod_arm64" container by using `docker ps` to find the container id and `docker restart <container id>` to restart the container.
- Check the logs with `docker-compose logs -f` to verify the configuration is correct and the data source is accessible

Commit message:

Renamed to iot connector flex

user-docs/docs/QuckStart.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started - Operating System Installation and IoT connector flex Commissioning
---

## Prepare SD Card

You can find the latest Golden Image for the IoT2050 Advanced can be downloaded here:

_[Download IoT connector flex OS](https://codestryke-artifacts.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/dmg-mdclight/6nGDr9SZEvhN9qTLOuzMBK61mMb96OmJVf4d/Z9DGRRrFEX87Axzyq0aSxB6sB3LqFWCnW1tk/iot-connector-light-os-v1.2.0.zip)_

Unzip the image and use dd to copy the operating system to an SD Card. Industrial SD Cards are recommended.

Command:
`sudo dd if=<path to image> of=<your device> bs=4M oflag=sync`

Example:
`sudo dd if=mdclight-iot2050.img of=/dev/sdb bs=4M oflag=sync`

You can also use balena Etcher for a safer way to flash the image: [Download Balena Etcher](https://www.balena.io/etcher/)

After the command or balena Etcher is finished your SD Card is ready.

## Setup IoT2050 & Change Boot Order

By default (for newer IoT2050 Advanced device) the Siemens Industrial OS 2.x is installed on the internal MMC storage. In addition the boot priority is set
to the internal memory above the SD card slot. This means that you have to boot into the Industrial OS, complete the setup wizard and change the boot order before you can use the "IoT connector flex OS".

1. First you need to complete the Industrial OS setup wizard. For this you need to connect a keyboard and monitor to your IoT2050 device. Keep in mind that an if you
   want to use an "Display Port" to HDMI adapter, you need to use an active one.
2. After you connected monitor and keyboard connect the IoT2050 to a power source.
3. After boot the setup wizard should be displayed. You can mostly use default configurations, but be sure to configure a known IP address for at least one network interface, this will be used later for SSH access. If the wizard does not start and you are stuck on the "localhost" login, you can try to reboot. If that does not
   work you need to use an USB->UART adapter to access the console: [Siemens Documentation](https://support.industry.siemens.com/tf/ww/en/posts/how-to-setup-pre-installed-industrial-os-on-iot2050-advanced/266090/?page=0&pageSize=10)
4. SSH into the device using the configured IP address, username and password.

Create `/etc/fw_env.config`, for example using the command line:

```
cat <<EOT >> /etc/fw_env.config
# MTD device name       Device offset   Env. size       Flash sector size       Number of sectors
/dev/mtd3               0x0000          0x20000         0x10000
/dev/mtd4               0x0000          0x20000         0x10000
EOT
```

Then run `fw_setenv boot_targets usb0 usb1 usb2 mmc0 mmc1` to set the sd card to first boot priority

## Setup OS & Config

Now you can disconnect the IoT2050 from the power supply and insert the SD card. After you reconnect the power, the device will boot into
the the new OS stored on the SD card.

The device can be accessed using keyboard & monitor, or via SSH over the network. The default IP address of the eth0 interface is `192.168.214.165`, eth1 is set to
DHCP by default. CAUTION!: Make sure that no device in your network has the address 192.168.214.165 before you connect your network to eth0!

The default user is `root` & the default password is `mdclight`.

Once in the shell you can configure the network interfaces with the following commands:

For X1 P1 - eth0 (machine network - default IP: 192.168.214.165):
`nmcli con mod 'eth0-default' ipv4.method auto` - For DHCP
`nmcli con mod 'eth0-default' ipv4.addresses 192.168.214.231/24 ipv4.method manual` - For static IP
`nmcli con up eth0-default` - After you entered one of the above commands, to activate the changes

For X1 P2 - eth1 (company network - default setting: DHCP):
`nmcli con mod 'eth1-default' ipv4.method auto`
`nmcli con mod 'eth1-default' ipv4.addresses 192.168.185.181/24 ipv4.gateway 192.168.185.1 ipv4.dns 192.168.185.1 ipv4.method manual`
`nmcli con up eth1-default` - After you entered one of the above commands, to activate the changes

## Configuration Web Interface

- The IoT connector flex can be configured via the web interface (accessible via port 80 on both network interfaces)
- After the configuration is changed you need to restart the IoT connector flex, either via a reboot of the device or via `docker-compose down && docker-compose up -d` (In the user folder of "root" - `cd ~`)
- You can use the `nmcli` command to see the IP addresses for both interfaces (For DHCP you can see the IP address which was assigned to the device)

## Connecting MTConnect Applications

- The MTConnect endpoint is exposed on port `5000` on both network interfaces
- You can use the `nmcli` command to see the IP addresses for both interfaces (For DHCP you can see the IP address which was assigned to the device)

## Connecting OPC UA Clients

- The OPC UA server endpoint is exposed on port `4840` on both network interfaces
- You can use the `nmcli` command to see the IP addresses for both interfaces (For DHCP you can see the IP address which was assigned to the device)

## Configuration documentation & reference

- Primarily the IoT connector flex should be configured via the webserver
- The IoT connector flex config is stored in `/etc/MDCLight/config/config.json` - You can use `IP=<your ip> yarn copy_mdc_conf` to update the IoT connector flex config on an IoT2050 from the repository
- See the "MdcLightConfiguration" document for an explanation of the configuration format
- The MTConnect agent configuration is stored in `/etc/MDCLight/mtc_config` - The documentation for these config files can be found on the [MTConnect Agent Github](https://github.com/mtconnect/cppagent#configuration)
- After you changed the configuration you need to restart the docker containers `docker-compose down && docker-compose up -d`. HINT: To avoid problems with the
  messenger you can also only restart the "mdclight-prod_arm64" container by using `docker ps` to find the container id and `docker restart <container id>` to restart the container.
- Check the logs with `docker-compose logs -f` to verify the configuration is correct and the data source is accessible
